---
tags:  dors-cluc event
title: DORS/CLUC 2016
---
<iframe src="https://www.facebook.com/plugins/post.php?href=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.facebook.com%2Fmedia%2Fset%2F%3Fset%3Da.10154159840722290.1073741906.735252289%26type%3D3&width=500" width="500" height="597" style="border:none;overflow:hidden" scrolling="no" frameborder="0" allowTransparency="true"></iframe>

I am feeling very proud wearing my [DORS/CLUC 2009](/dors-cluc-2009) T-shirt. :D Random idea: a place to put jackets would be nice.

There are a lot of papers in the conference bag, but the only really interesting is [Free Your Android](https://fsfe.org/campaigns/android/android.en.html). Pretty interesting exhibition in the hall. Check the photo gallery for details.

# Day one

**The long way to empower people to control technology, Matthias Kirchner**

Interesting stories about his work with [Free Software Foundation Europe](https://fsfe.org/) and fighting for open standards and free software in government. Free your Android is probably the most interesting to me. Also, asking governments to include links to open source PDF reader, not just to Adobe Reader.

**Alpha2Omega: Open Source Software in In-Vehicle Infotainment, Dorian Ivančić**

Story about how [Rimac Automobili](http://www.rimac-automobili.com/en/) uses open source. Interestingly, they are not making money on their fancy cars, but by selling services and parts to other manufacturers. Fancy cars are just for marketing. This was probably the most interesting talk of the conference, and there were tons of questions after the talk. It is great to see that such cutting off technology is developed in Croatia.

**LibreItalia and Italian best practices of migration to LibreOffice, Sonia Montegiove**

I know this stuff is important, but I don't really care.

**LibreOffice moves online, Ozcan Esen**

An overview of the technology of online version of LibreOffice. I was not even aware that there is such a thing. Cool.

**Infrastruktura VoIP, Davor Jovanović**

Technical details of VoIP installation for a big local educational institution.

**Open Source Hardware, why we do it and why it matters, Tsvetlan Usunov**

[DIY OSHW Laptop Kit 2015-2016](https://olimex.wordpress.com/tag/laptop/) is the most interesting thing. I did not really think about picking a license for your open source hardware project. Interesting.

**Make your web solutions more flexible with layout and block management, Ivo Lukač**

I did not really get this talk. According to the questions from the audience after the talk, I was not the only one. In short, the talk was about design and development of complex web sites.

**REST API - iskustva iz prakse, Denis Kranjčec**

An overview of REST and how it is used in a big local educational institution.

**Free Technology, Free Societies, Aaron Seigo**

A quote from the talk: "Who controls the past controls the future. Who controls the present controls the past." is from [Nineteen Eighty-Four](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ingsoc) by George Orwell. I did read a book, but it was a while ago. I remember the quote from [Testify (Rage Against the Machine song)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Testify_%28Rage_Against_the_Machine_song%29). :)

**Docker Security, Vlatko Košturjak**

The basics of Docker and it's security. In short, it is pretty secure by default, but there are additional things that you could and should do to make it even more secure.

# Day two

**Go and The Art of Software Development, Aaron Seigo**

I was expecting the talk would be about [Go (programming language)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_%28programming_language%29), but it was about [Go (game)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Go_%28game%29).

**Fault tolerant services with Corosync and Pacemaker, Marian Marinov**

I was not at all interested in the topic.

**Iskustva u korištenju GITLaba, Dubravko Penezić**

Surprising thing is that they started switching from SVN to Git as late as 2013.

**Where are women in Fedora?, Jona Azizaj**

The talk reminded me of a project I was working on with an old lady we called grandma. It was really interesting to be in a deep technical conversation with a lady that could be my grandma.

**Uporaba Mahare u izradi e-portfolia djelatnika, Ana Ćorić Samardžija i Zvonko Martinović**

I came for the last half. I came for lightning talks.

**Lightning talks**

I love lightning talks.

- Marian Marinov - The Linux Network NameSpace
- Krunoslav Peter - Mali Arduino za jednostavne primjene
- Darko Topolko - Pregrada uživo
- Lana Podgoršek - Civilno hakiranje

**Croatian Makers, Nenad Bakić**

Using robotics to improve education. Probably the best talk of the conference.

**Linux i audio, Igor Švarc**

Linux and audio, presented by a blind person. 

**Games and Fun on Fedora, Gergely Rakosi**

There is a way to play pong (and other old games) in emacs. http://computers.tutsplus.com/tutorials/how-to-play-tetris-pong-and-other-hidden-games-on-your-mac--mac-44485

**Breaking the Internet of Things, Tonimir Kišasondi**

On security of internet of things. It's bad.

Apparently, you can ask questions at goo.gl/slides/xhkk, the questions are great.

> Would You Rather Fight a Horse-Sized Duck or a Hundred Duck-Sized Horses?
> SELECT UserId, Name, Password FROM Users WHERE UserId = tkisason or 1=1

**Automated testing, a normal part of developer life in the world of agile development, Hans de Raad**

The title sounded really interesting, but the talk was meh.

**Let's hack cheap hardware - 2016 edition, Dobrica Pavlinušić**

I could not care less about the topic but Dobrica is such a good speaker, his talks are always amazing. :) Most of the cheap hardware can be hacked and made to do interesting things.
